[AUDIO LOGO]
>> So sleep is a skill,
and it starts with light.
My main message for you today
is that your light bulbs
are harming you, and they
are killing your sleep.
Let me explain.
Just this year, 248 circadian
scientists referencing 2,697
peer-reviewed publications are
now calling for warning labels
on light bulbs
when used at night.
Why, right?
We all got light bulbs.
We're all using them at night.
Look what's going on here.
So why?
Well, they found
that the correlation
between the use of
light bulbs at night
is resulting in things like
obesity, diabetes, heart
disease, reproductive disorders,
psychiatric disorders, cancers,
and--
for me, this is part of
my passion, poor sleep.
That same scientific
consensus also
found that the average person is
spending over 90% of their days
inside.
Why does that matter?
Well, if we're inside
underneath these faux lights,
what is happening?
Our days on average are
now 100 times too dim
as it would have been in
relation to being outdoors
and on average 100 times too
bright in the evening than it
would have been even on the
brightest moonlit evening.
What this is doing is causing a
major circadian dysregulation.
What is that?
Well, I will tell you.
Circadian dysregulation is the
relationship to the 24-hour
rotation of the Earth and how
we used to be aligned with that
rotation when we were outside.
Now that we've gone
indoors, what has happened
is that we have dysregulated
that natural rhythm and clock
function.
And what this does,
as you can see,
is this laundry list of
impacts on our biology.
But as it relates to
circadian dysregulation,
I certainly know a
thing or two about that,
because my own story with sleep
was my own story of circadian
dysregulation.
And what that looked
like is the fact
that I now think of my life
in a three-part series.
I think of it as before my sleep
breakdown, during and after.
So before, what
things looked like was
I would have a lot of labels
and narratives around my sleep.
I would say things
like, I'm a night owl.
I'm a short sleeper.
It's in my genes.
I'll sleep when I'm dead.
If any of you can
relate to that.
And I would also be justified
and righteous the whole time
because I would say, well, I get
my best work done 2:00, 3:00,
sometimes 4:00 in the morning.
I know.
And what I would then
experience was a shift.
I would sleep in the next
day and do it all over again.
I didn't think this
was much of a problem.
I didn't notice the
impacts on my health
and being correlated with this.
So what that looked
like was an ulcer.
It looked like
shingles in my 20s.
It looked like increasing
anxiety, and no clue
as to where this
was coming from.
It was not until I went
through a period of insomnia
while traveling internationally
under lots of confused circadian
rhythms with lots of
jet lag and stress.
And what I experienced was
a stretch of insomnia that
completely changed my life.
During this time, it was one
of my rock bottoms in my life,
and the result was a time
where I really questioned,
can I go on?
Can I go on another
day in this state,
because I felt like
I was losing my mind.
At its worst point,
I went to the doctors
and I left with sleeping pills.
And in that moment,
I realized, OK,
if I am going to
change this, I've
got to get to the source of what
does it take to get great sleep,
because it looks like I
got to do this myself.
So I embarked on
this quest to start
to learn all that I
could around what does it
take to get great sleep.
And what I came
across again and again
was circadian rhythm and
minding your circadian rhythm.
So understanding that, I
started to implement this.
Everything I told
you about, about how
I was managing my life, I
turned that upside down.
And the result was a
totally different--
not only experience of life,
totally different relationship
to my sleep, but suddenly
a realization that I--
despite all of those
labels and narratives,
I could get great sleep,
and that it is a skill.
So I started a company to
help support other people
with their sleep.
And one of the groups that I
work with quite frequently,
and I want to share with you,
is high-stakes poker players.
Why is that relevant?
Well, let's think about
the type of environment
that these people find
themselves in, right?
Casinos that are
designed on purpose
to confuse the circadian rhythm.
This is an environment filled
with bright lights, no clocks,
no windows, lots of stimuli,
lots of dopamine hits,
slot machines, all
the fun things.
Now, we might think
that we are totally
foreign to that lifestyle.
But I'm going to
argue that many of us
are much closer to this
lifestyle than our ancestors.
Now this is what life for
thousands of years looked like.
You would rise in the morning
with this pinky hue sunrise
and overhead down a
few hours into the day.
You would have your brightest
lights right above you
at solar noon,
and then you would
have a countdown between when
you're going to get to sunset.
And you had to do all the
rest of the things you
got to do for the day
before the day is done.
And it's total
darkness, and we do not
have any other source of
light besides the moon
until the next morning.
And that's how it was
for us, for so long.
And the wavelengths of light
that we were under for all
that time looked like this.
Beautiful rainbow.
You'll notice it in the day.
Lots of blue light
present, excitatory,
wake us up, wake
promoting in the evening,
shifting over to much
more red-centric light.
That all changed
144 years ago when
Edison created the light bulb.
He created the incandescent
light bulb specifically,
and it seemed to mirror
more closely to sunset.
As you can see, they
nicely parallel each other.
Fortunately, this year
in the United States,
it became illegal to purchase.
So most of us are now spending
our evenings and days,
but certainly our evenings
under these sorts of lights.
You'll notice the large
bands of blue light.
Why does that matter?
Because blue light,
as you may have heard,
of course, is impacting
our melatonin production.
But I think many of
us might not realize
to what degree until we see
that laundry list that we saw
that's impacting our
biology and to why
all these circadian
scientists want warning labels
on our light bulbs at night.
So what's the solution?
What do we do?
OK, so what we want to do is
mimic how life was in the past.
One of the first biohacks,
if you will, was fire.
Fire allowed us to
augment our days
and allowed that augmentation
to have orange and red lights,
but not impact our melatonin the
same way our modern lights do.
So if you want,
you could actually
have fire present
in your environment.
You could have candles.
But if you want some tech,
you could have red lights.
You could have
Himalayan salt lamps.
You could have programs that
can turn your screens red.
You can use blue blockers for
the unavoidable blue lights,
orange, or red lenses.
And ultimately, I want to
leave you with a challenge.
I want you to think of your
environment in your home
and think of all the light
bulbs you have in there.
But I want you to
choose just one,
and I want you to replace
that one light bulb--
I'd suggest in the bedroom.
But I would replace that light
bulb with orange or red bulbs.
That is going to support
not only your sleep,
but your overall
health and well-being.
And I want you to remember one
thing, that sleep is a skill,
and it starts with light.
Thank you.
[AUDIO LOGO]